---
layout: post
categories : [Ephemera, Videogames]
featured : posts/shadows-of-the-damned.jpg
---
If you happen to be a demon; Garcia “fucking” Hotspur is not your friend. If you go so far as to abduct his girl… well, you might soon me smiling on the other side of your face, if you have any face left.

Clad in a purple leather jacket Hotspur assaults the underworld, joined by Johnson a British floating skull. Johnson morphs into various “guns” and together they murderize anything with a pulse (do demons have a pulse? …they certainly bleed buckets worth). Voiced by the decidedly un-Latino Steve Blum Hotspur slings innuendo and stereotypical Latino vulgarities with frightening regularity. 

It should come as no surprise that this madness is a Suda 51 joint, (the masturbation-esc quick time sequences should give that away alone). What is more unexpected is the collaboration with king of Resident Evil Shinji Mikami. It is a shame then that the only passable shooting doesn’t represent the quality one might expect. The music by Akira Yamaoka is hit and miss but features some of the most unique game music in recent times. The suitably bizarre [developer](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=80xK_OWsXEg) [diaries](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=84u9q9RTwr0) show the developers were clearly deep into the madness.

I have a special kind of respect for media of any kind that goes unremittingly balls-out with it’s chosen vocation. Every inch of Hotspur’s world is either blood or sex, often both. Similar to Bulletstorm’s foul language or Bayonetta’s nonsensical sexualisation SotD rises above it’s immature components and forms something almost pure. Ridiculous but pure.

Post Script: Games should NEVER have non-skippable cut scenes. 